---
title: "Reflection on the paper Computational Meme Understanding"
date: 2025-05-04
---

Paper source: [Computational Meme Understanding](https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.1184/)

Currently, I have been doing a literature review on the study of multimodal meme understanding capability and I found this paper: [Computational Meme Understanding: A Survey](https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.1184/). This paper helps me to capture the current state of the research field as well as introduces me with the important previous work. Here in this blog, I will try my best to summarize the paper and also reflect on it.

Memes area prevalent means of online communication. They contain knowledge from many subcommunities on the internet and are used to express different thoughts and perspectives. Therefore, understanding memes becomes important if we look at some of the societal motivations that they can give us, such as reducing the generation gap among students or reducing political/harmful ideas.
ADD EXAMPLES OF MEMES

In this paper, the authors use the term "Computational Meme Understanding" (CMU) to refer to the set of tasks that require meme comprehension. For a CMU system to perform well at understanding memes, the system needs to be able to interpret both the visual and textual cues and describe the meaning of it. This means two things: firstly, we expect the CMU system to be able to capture the taxonomy of memes. In this paper, the authors borrow the taxonomy idea from social science which describes 3 axes:
- Forms
- Functions
- Topics

Secondly, the system should be able to perform the downstream tasks. The paper reviews 3 common tasks:
- Classification
- **Interpretation**
- **Explanation**
